---
title: Proof of de Chaisemartin and d'Haultfoeuille (2020) under staggered treatment adoption
output:
  md_document:
    variant: "gfm+tex_math_dollars"
    preserve_yaml: TRUE
author: "brant"
date: '2023-05-29'
layout: single
permalink: /posts/dCdH
categories:
  - Econometrics
  - Policy Evaluation
  - Panel Data
  - Proofs
  - Notes to Self
comments: true
---

In my recent chapter in the *Handbook of Labor, Human Resources, and
Population Economics*, I included proofs of results from Goodman-Bacon
(*Journal of Econometrics*, 2021) and Sun and Abraham (*Journal of
Econometrics*, 2021) basically with the idea of trying to write these
results down in similar notation. I didn’t include the result from de
Chaisemartin and d’Haultfoeuille (*American Economic Review*, 2020) just
due to space limitations, but we are building on that result in a couple
of recent papers, and I write this sort of proof just infrequently
enough that I have to figure it out over and over. I’m going to just
include the proof for the oft-considered case with staggered treatment
adoption, no anticipation, and no units treated in the first period. I’m
also using the same notation I always use – if it’s confusing, check out
my [handbook
chapter](https://bcallaway11.github.io/files/Callaway-Chapter-2022/main.pdf).
And, just to be clear, I’m not inventing anything here, just putting
down a proof of a nice result in a familiar notation for me.

The main assumption underlying all of this is the following **parallel
trends assumption**:

For all $g \in \mathcal{G}$, and $t=2,\ldots,\mathcal{T}$, which says
that the path of untreated potential outcomes is the same for all groups
across all time periods.

The interest here centers on interpreting $\alpha$ from the following
regression Panel data versions of FWL-type arguments imply that we can
remove the time- and unit- fixed effects by where the notation indicates
double-demeaning each of the variables, so, for example, Now, population
versions of FWL arguments imply that we can write There are two useful
properties of double-demeaned random variables that are useful below
These are easy results to show (see, for example, my handbook chapter
mentioned above for more details). Next, notice that, under staggered
treatment adoption, $\ddot{D}_{it}$ is fully determined by a unit’s
group and knowledge of $t$. In particular, notice that, Thus, define the
function
$v(g,t) = \indicator{g \leq t} - \frac{\mathcal{T} - g + 1}{\mathcal{T}}$;
this implies that $D_{it} - \bar{D}_i = v(G_i,t)$. Next, define the
function
$h(g,t) = v(g,t) - \displaystyle \sum_{g\in \mathcal{G}} v(g,t) p_g$,
and notice that
$\E[D_t] - \displaystyle \frac{1}{\mathcal{T}} \sum_{s=1}^{\mathcal{T}} \E[D_s] = \E\big[ D_{it} - \bar{D}_i\big] = \E[v(G,t)]$.
This implies that $\ddot{D}_{it} = h(G_i,t)$, which gives us an easy way
to switch between working with $\ddot{D}_{it}$ and groups.

To show the result, most of the work will be for the numerator in the
expression for $\alpha$ above, and, in particular, notice that where the
first equality holds by the property that
$\displaystyle \sum_{t=1}^{\mathcal{T}} \ddot{D}_{it} = 0$, the second
equality holds by the definition of $h$ and by combining terms, the
third equality holds by the law of iterated expectations, we show that
the extra term in the fourth equality is equal to 0 below, and the last
equality holds by combining terms. Combining this with the denominator
in the FWL expression for $\alpha$, we have that

Note that the previous result is a decomposition in the sense that
everything is computable, and $\alpha$ will be exactly equal to the term
on the right hand side ($\hat{\alpha}$ will be equal to the sample
analogue of the term on the RHS).

It’s also interesting to separate the previous expression based on
whether a particular period is a post-treatment or a pre-treatment
period. In particular, just by splitting the sum above (and noticing
that the inside term is equal 0 for the never-treated group), we have
that

Next, let’s impose parallel trends. In particular, under parallel trends
$\E[(Y_{it} - Y_{ig-1}) | G=g] - \E[(Y_{it} - Y_{ig-1}) | G=\mathcal{T}+1] = ATT(g,t)$
for $t \geq g$ (i.e., post-treatment periods for group $g$), and
$\E[(Y_{it} - Y_{ig-1}) | G=g] - \E[(Y_{it} - Y_{ig-1}) | G=\mathcal{T}+1] = 0$
for $t < g$ (i.e., pre-treatment periods for group $g$). Then, where
$\bar{\mathcal{G}}$ denotes the set of all groups excluding
$G=\mathcal{T}+1$ (the never-treated group). This says that, under
parallel trends, $\alpha$ is equal to a weighted average of group-time
average treatment effects. To conclude, let’s show some interesting
properties of the weights, $w(g,t)$. Consider the numerator of the the
weights, This implies that or, in other words, the weights sum to 1.
This is a good property for the weights to have. It is possible to
discuss the weights in more detail though. I think it is fair to see the
denominator in the weights as a normalizing constant. The $p_g$ term
indicates that, at least for this component of the weights, larger
groups will tend to be given more weight. The most interesting term in
the weights is $h(g,t)$, and, for example, it is possible for $h(g,t)$
to be negative (which would make $w(g,t)$ negative as well). Recall that
Also, notice that, for all the group-times that get non-zero weight,
$\indicator{g \leq t} = 1$, and the last term is constant across $g$ and
$t$. This means that the most interesting terms are the two middle ones.
Group-times that get negative weights (or the smallest weights) would be
ones where $\displaystyle \frac{T-g+1}{\mathcal{T}}$ is large (this
would be the case for early treated groups) and when $\E[D_t]$ is large
(this would be large for later treated periods). This discussion
suggests that, in a very simple case where $\mathcal{T}=3$ and
$\mathcal{G} = \{2,3,4\}$, the $ATT(g,t)$ at risk of having negative
weights is $ATT(g=2,t=3)$.
